Add beginner course for MongoDB (#1075)
enkidevs/curriculum: mongodb/intro/crud-collections-and-documents-intro/update-single-document.md

---
author: Stefan-Stojanovic

levels:
  - beginner

aspects:
  - introduction

type: normal

category: must-know

standards:
  javascript.crud.3: 10
  javascript.crud.6: 10
  javascript.field-update-operators.0: 10

links:

---
# Update a single document

---
## Content

To update a document in MongoDB you should use either the  `updateOne()` or the `updateMany()` method.

The `updateOne()` method is used to update a single document and the `updateMany()` method is used to update multiple documents at once.

### Update a single document

The `updateOne()` method has 3 parameters `(filter, update, options)`.

The `filter` is the criteria used for selecting a document you want to edit.

The `update` is the new modification for the value of the selected document.

Possible values for modification are  `$rename`, `$set` and `$unset`.

(We will only use the `$set` value in this workout)

`$set` is used to replace a value for the selected field of the document. If the selected field doesn't exist, `$set` will create a new one with the specified value.

The `options` parameter is used for adding more options to the update method and will be discussed in a later workout.

> Let's say we have a `pokemon` collection where one of the Pokémons types is misspelled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's say we have a `pokemon` collection where one of the Pokémon's type is misspelled.
```

```javascript
db.pokemon.find({ "_id": 8 })
```

Output:

```javascript
{
  "_id" : 8,
  "name" : "Venusaur",
  "type" : "Grasz"
}
```

> If we wanted to change that Pokémons "type" from `"Grasz"` to `"Grass"`, we can update the document with the `$set` modification through any of its properties like so:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If we wanted to change that Pokémon's `"type"` from `"Grasz"` to `"Grass"`, we can update the document with the `$set` modification through any of its properties like so:
```

```javascript
db.pokemon
  .updateOne(
    { _id: 8 },
    { $set: { type: "Grass" } }
  );

> 

Reviewer: maybe we should remove one of the empty rows?
